---
layout: post
title: deploying new hosts
date: 2018-08-21
category: homelab
---
I caught the Docker bug and recently and that led me to think about deploying a few new tools for my homelab which led to the deployment of a few new vm hosts on my network which made me think there's got to be a way to automate the provisioning of new vm hosts.
<!--more-->

I have one home server machine. Its a Lenovo tower with a 8 thread Xeon processor and 16GB of RAM running VMWare EXSi as a hypervisor. I run it headless using the ESXi web interface to monitor/control. Usually, I have two VMs running all the time. A Windows 10 Server VM for my SQL Server and SSRS Server needs and a Ubuntu Server VM as a dev box. These two VMs take up 3/8 processor threads and 7/16 GB of the RAM. Plenty of headroom for a few more machines. 

#### Enter Docker
This isn't my Docker post, I promise. But my use of docker specific hosts is what brought me here.

I deployed 4 new VMs in a week, all running Ubuntu Server 18.04.1 LTS, all to support/test/try various Docker installs and projects. The updated installer is really simple and allows for network configuration. I was able to assign IP addresses during the install process. It rules. I still had to manually set up my router DNS to point `hostxyz.local` to `192.168.1.xyz` and manually confiure my prefered `.bashrc` and `.bash_aliases` on each machine as well as update and install all the base common software I would be using. 

#### The question
Is there away to deploy VMs, assign IPs, update my local DNS, install base software, etc., etc., using some kind of automated script? 

**Answer: probably.**

I haven't done any research yet. I would assume you could automate this kind of action through the ESXi shell, router shell, etc. I would also assume that I'm not the first one to want to streamline and automate this process.

**But**, is it also true that I could do all of these things through a Dockerfile? Build a Docker image that I could deploy at will to simulate server VMs as containers with all of my custom setup? Can you run Docker containers inside of Docker containers? 

Can I build a docker image that doesnt deploy VMs(ish) as containers but will simply run a script to deploy and ESXi machine, and all the other steps? 

So many questions. I'm not even sure if I have a practical reason for pursuing the answers, but its a fun thought to entertain nonetheless.